Amazon CEO Andy Jasse says artificial
intelligence will lead uh to a reduction
of its corporate workforce eventually uh
over the next few years. He wrote in a
memo to employees that they should
figure out uh in his words how to get
more done with scrappier teams. That's
nice. Joining us now former Democratic
presidential candidate Andrew Yang. It's
um it's a daunting future we have. U Mr.
obviously and you've been I said we I I
was at a was it a book party that that
uh that I attended for you a book event
six years 6 years ago talking about uh
this on the horizon and and the need for
maybe even back then uh universal uh
basic income I guess at this point
you're you're thinking wow it's
accelerating faster than than you even
thought. Yeah, it's here even faster
than I'd imagined back in 2019 and 2020.
And I talked to CEOs who are replacing
thousands of customer service workers
with AI. Entire design departments, even
coders are being supplanted. And Becky
and I were just talking about how we
used to tell our kids, "Hey, if you
major in computer science, you'll be
good to go." And now those graduates are
having a hard time finding jobs. It's
starting to appear in the numbers for
recent college graduates and entry-
level white collar work. uh if you you
know if you're a science fiction um
believer it's you know I was going to
ask you whether the whole lite chorus
that we've heard for 150 years that it's
never actually just it's always been
better technology long term not maybe
not always but but many times even more
jobs are created from the the
technologies that's being deployed
whether it's internal combustion engines
or whatever you want to look at you
would argue this time is is different
with with AI and then it's it's not I
mean then if you like I said science
fiction not just displacing us
from work but maybe just displacing us
all together uh 100 years from now you
have to take a lot of those science
fiction style scenarios very seriously
Joe in my opinion uh and the most common
job in 29 states is still being a truck
driver you have robot trucks just now
hitting the highways and that they'll be
gone Daario Amadeay the CEO of Anthropic
said Look, we're going to automate away
a lot of the entry-level white collar
jobs. And he's right because I talked to
executives at these companies who are
doing exactly what Andy Jasse is talking
about at Amazon, looking around saying,
"Hey guys, instead of hiring a bunch of
22 year olds, maybe we should have AI do
that work." Uh, so I I fear for the next
generation because all of the experience
that maybe we got in our 20s uh and 30s,
there might not be that kind of ladder
available to them. Look, Andy Jasse said
that he he wants employees to kind of
take advantage and learn how to use AI,
learn how to do their jobs better, maybe
make things easier. Maybe it takes care
of some of the grunt level work you
don't like doing, but it allows you to
have more space and room to do things
creatively. Should we be afraid of that?
Oh well, what what this means in real
life, Becky, is you have a department of
six people, let's say say coders or
designers, and then you end up
eliminating four or five of them, and
then there's one designer coder
empowered by AI. So, there's going to be
a beneficiary in the organization, but
you're just not going to need as many
people in that department, and that's
going to play out over and over again.
The Pope had some some interesting thing
and and he's getting involved. Uh, last
pope was, you know, big on climate
change. this this might be uh important
and he says the worlds of Leo the worlds
of science and politics uh need to
immediately tackle this problem without
without allowing scientific progress to
advance with arrogance harming those who
have to submit to power and he's going
to host a lot of people but right now
it's just break neck there's no there's
no governors on on what's happening
whatsoever no I mean if you think about
the incentives of the individual firm
it's just to go go go as fast as
possible because there there's like a
bit of an arms race in terms of compute
literally and the data and the model
literally and then they'll they'll look
up and say our competitor is China so I
got to go go uh the question is what
happens to people and and I'm someone
who look I'm not anti-progress anti-
innovation I think all that stuff is
very positive but you have to be
cleareyed about the impact on people on
organizations on workers and in my
estimation this fourth industrial
revolution is the most dramatic thing
that's happened to our society in
history uh AI might be the most radical
breakthrough in human history. And so we
have to to think much much bigger about
that allows more spare time that allows
people to uh we become so rich from AI
that maybe you can do UBI and and not
everyone has to work 5 days. You gave me
a thumbs up. Is that the answer for you?
Uh to me that is the answer. Uh the
question is how do we get from point A
to point B? Because right now, the
beneficiaries of AI are going to be a
small handful of firms. And then the
average 22-year-old or uh truck truck
driver or whatnot is going to be just
looking around saying, "Where did my job
go?" Uh, and they're not going to be
experiencing that kind of value. That to
me is what government and politics are
for. That's what got me into the
Democratic race in 2020. Unfortunately,
right now, our political class is very,
very far away from these problems. And
one of our goals should be to try and
bring them together the way the Pope's
describing. All right. So, what do you
think of the I don't know if you call it
a rider, but the the initiative that's
trying to be pushed into the budget
bill, the one big beautiful bill right
now that has made it through the House
version. We don't know what's going to
happen with the Senate entirely because
of the bird rules and others, but it
it's a move to say the state attorney
generals, other states have no way of
setting any rules or guidelines or laws
around AI that it should be only allowed
at a federal level.
And by the way, there are backers, a lot
of the big AI names that are backing and
kind of lobbying for that. Oh, certainly
if you're an AI company, the last thing
you want is a hodgepodge of state rules
uh that you then have to navigate or run
a foul of. And on a lot of these fronts,
uh, including social media, by the way,
what you see is you see a federal
hands-off approach and then the states
at some point step up and say, you know
what, I don't love the this treatment of
customer data. Uh, they're trying to
avoid that in AI. If you're going to
have that, then you would need a
buttoned up sensible approach from the
federal government guidelines before
you. Yes. Exactly. in but the incentives
for the corporates will be let us do
whatever we want and then even for the
individual legislators will be like oh
do I want to mess with the AI guys not
really so you're going to end up with an
a wild west approach what what do you
hear you you say that you talk to CEOs
who are talking about all the people
they're they're getting rid of jobs that
they're replacing with AI what what what
do you say to them what what's your
approach to say hey this may not be
great in the in the long term
I say come clean. I say just and by the
way, Andy Jasse uh making those public
statements, Dario Amade making those
public statements, they're signaling to
us, guys, we are going to be getting rid
of a lot of workers. We're going to get
leaner and meaner. So please, please, if
you're in government, do something about
it because their responsibility is not
societywide. Their responsibility is
just to make their organization
successful. And those interests are
going to diverge from the the average
workers pretty sharply. It used to be
when you guys saw a company increase
headcount, you'd say, "Okay, good.
They're they're growing. They're
healthy." Increasingly, headcount is
going to be a bad sign. And you're going
to look at them and say, "Wait a minute.
What are you guys doing wrong?" It's
always been the case on Wall Street,
though. I can I think back 20 years and
even longer than that, where, you know,
you talk about on the floor how they're
they're laying people off. They do.
Yeah. There's a bump when when there's a
you know a cut back in workers.